Add new SCIM API docs (#3239)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/tutorial-manage-users-groups-scim.mdx

---
title: 'Tutorial: Manage users and groups with the SCIM API (New Relic One user model)'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Automated user management
  - New Relic One user management
metaDescription: 'A New Relic user management tutorial: Automated User Management with the SCIM API.'
---

> This tutorial will walk you through some common procedures for managing users on the New Relic One user model using the SCIM API. The SCIM API allows you to view, create, update, and delete users and groups programmatically, outside of the [User management UI](#TODO).

Reviewer: Stray TODO

## Requirements [#requirements]

Some notes on who this tutorial is for and requirements:

* This tutorial is for managing users on our New Relic One user model.

> * This tutorial is for managing users without a supported identity provider. Refer to one of the specific integration guides to manage users with a supported identity provider: [Okta](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/okta-scimsso-application-configuration/), [Azure AD](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/azure-ad-scimsso-application-configuration/), [OneLogin](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/azure-ad-scimsso-application-configuration/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This tutorial is for managing users automatically when you aren't using one of these supported identity providers. If you are using one of these providers, please refer to one of these specific integration guides: [Okta](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/okta-scimsso-application-configuration/), [Azure AD](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/azure-ad-scimsso-application-configuration/), [OneLogin](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/azure-ad-scimsso-application-configuration/)
```

* Managing users and groups with the SCIM API requires Enterprise edition. For details, see [user management requirements](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles#requirements).

> * Note that managing _access grants_ is not possible with the SCIM API, you must use the **Organization and access** UI to create grants. For details, see [user management tutorial](#TODO).

Reviewer: Stray TODO

* [Role](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) requirements:
    * Generating the SCIM API token requires the **Authentication domain manager** role.
    * Using the **Organization and access** UI to manage group access requires **Authentication domain manager** and **Organization manager** roles.

## Overview [#overview]

Before using this tutorial, we first recommend reading these docs:

* [Where to find user management features in the UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where)
* [Important user management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts)
* [SCIM API reference](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/scim-support-automated-user-management/)

> * SCIM 2.0 RFC documents from the Internet Engineering Task Force: [RFC 7642](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7642), [RFC 7643](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7643), [RFC 7644](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7644)

Reviewer: This seems like too much to read. I think I could get pretty far in building out a script without reading these, and the specific sections below are much better. Maybe move those up here? 

Alternatively, you could have another section that's called "Reference materials" or something.

* [Configure your Authentication Domain for SCIM](#configure-scim)
* [Create users and user groups in your system](#create-in-idp)
* [Connect to the SCIM API](#connect)
* [Create users in your Authentication Domain](#create-users)
* [Create groups in your Authentication Domain](#create-groups)
* [View users and groups in your Authentication Domain](#view)
* [Update a user's attributes](#update-user)
* [Update a group's members](#update-group)
* [Delete users and groups](#delete)
* [Manage user type with SCIM](#scim-user-type)

## Configure your Authentication Domain for SCIM [#configure-scim]

Before you can use the SCIM API, you must first [enable SCIM for your authentication domain](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#source-users). Note the API access token will be shown only once after saving the configuration, so keep it someplace safe! 

<Callout variant="tip">
If you need to view a bearer token later, the only way to do this is to generate a new one, and that will invalidate the old one and any integrations using the old token.
</Callout>

## Create users and user groups in your system [#create-in-idp]

> The SCIM API is typically used for importing users and groups into New Relic from a third-party identity provider. Create users and groups in your system before proceeding in this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SCIM API is typically used by scripts for importing users and groups into New Relic from a database or a third-party identity provider that doesn't have pre-configured configs for New Relic. 
```

Reviewer: When I read this it wasn't totally clear to me whether this was meant to support weirdo systems via curl or if SCIM was just a thing that comes for free when you do something like Auth0. I _think_ after reading this that it's more for the weirdo systems, so I added some words to try to emphasize that. 

I believe the tutorial would work even if you didn't have anything in your system, because the tutorial is just curls. So Removed that second sentence.

If you want to use the SCIM API in a custom application or for ad-hoc requests, proceed to learn how to connect to the SCIM API.

## Connect to the SCIM API [#connect]

The SCIM API is available at `https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2` and this URL is viewable in the Authentication Domain settings page. To access the SCIM API, your client must include a **bearer token** with each request. The token is displayed after saving your Authentication Domain configuration.

> If you are using a third-party identity provider, configure it to use **Bearer Token authorization** and plug in your API access token. Refer to your identity provider's documentation for help configuring this. Once configured, you're all set to import users and groups!

Reviewer: There are messages like this in almost every paragraph. It feels like you might want a <Callout> that links to a separate tutorial or a section at the top that really explains, "seriously, if you're using a third-party idp, you probably shouldn't be in this document".

> The SCIM 2.0 protocol requires user and group data to be sent in accordance with a few core _schemas_ and encoded in JSON. See [RFC 7643 - SCIM Core Resources and Extensions](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7643#section-4) and [RFC 7643 - JSON Representation](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7643#section-8) for the specifics. Refer to [RFC 7644 - SCIM Protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644) for more information about the protocol used in this

Reviewer: This is one of my favorite parts and I think it might deserve even more callout. 
```suggestion
Rather than reading the entire SCIM protocol RFCs, there are three specific chunks that you may find valuable: See [RFC 7643 - SCIM Core Resources and Extensions](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7643#section-4) and [RFC 7643 - JSON Representation](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7643#section-8) for the specifics. Refer to [RFC 7644 - SCIM Protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644) for more information about the protocol used in this.
```

tutorial.

For all requests to the SCIM API, you must provide the bearer token in an `Authorization` header. Here's an example with `curl`:

```
curl -X 'GET' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Users'
```

Any request in the rest of this tutorial will receive a **401 Unauthorized** response if the API access token is missing or invalid.

Example response:

<Collapser title="401 Unauthorized">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "detail": "invalid authentication token",
    "status": "401"
  }
  ```
</Collapser>

## Create users in your Authentication Domain [#create-users]

If you are using a third-party identity provider, refer to their documentation for how to push users with SCIM.

Otherwise, send a `POST` request to `/scim/v2/Users` to create a user. The following user attributes are **required**:
* `userName` This identifier **must** be unique within your Authentication Domain. Use the user's email address. 

> * `emails` Email address of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `emails` The single email address of the user (despite it being called `emails`, only one is accepted).
```

But one question, how is this different from the `userName` which is also the user's email address?

> * `active` Boolean indicating whether or not the user should be active or inactive within New Relic.

Reviewer: Since this is JSON I'm assuming this means an _actual_ boolean, not "true" or 1. Correct? I don't know if there's a way to indicate that in the comment without sounding pedantic or overly verbose.

Reviewer 2: probably fine considering we got the example below, but yeah i get your point

It is recomended to provide the following attributes for the best user experience:
* `name.givenName` The user's first or given name.
* `name.familyName` The user's last or family name.
* `timezone` The user's timezone in IANA Time Zone database format.

> Take note of the returned user `id`. To update a user in the future you will need to supply the same ID with the request.

Reviewer: This should be a <Callout> or something. Otherwise the curl seems to be related to it, but the curl is _actually_ more related to the bits above.

Or maybe just make a new section

```suggestion
Take note of the returned user `id`. To update a user in the future you will need to supply the same ID with the request.

### Example using `curl`
```

```
curl -X 'POST' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Users' --data-binary @- <<EOF
{
  "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:User"],
  "userName": "bjensen@example.com",
  "name": {
    "familyName": "Jensen",
    "givenName": "Barbara"
  },
  "emails": [
    {
      "primary": true,
      "value": "bjensen@example.com"
    }
  ],
  "active": true,
  "timezone": "America/Los_Angeles"
}
EOF
```

> Example responses:

Reviewer: This is a nit, so take it or leave it. This feels like it should be:

```suggestion
### Example responses
```

Regular paragraph text can get lost between long example snippets. If it becomes a header though, the `:` should go. But don't go all "Capitals Paragraph Case" though unless it's a proper noun.

Again, this is just an editor nit and I really hope that you'll ignore it if it doesn't match your style.

    "emails": [
      {
        "value": "bjensen@example.com",
        "primary": true
      }
    ],
    "timezone": "America/Los_Angeles",
    "active": true,
    "meta": {
      "resourceType": "User",
      "created": "2021-07-20T21:32:58.167Z",
      "lastModified": "2021-07-20T21:32:58.167Z"
    },
    "groups": []
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser title="400 Bad Request">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "scimType": "invalidValue",
    "detail": "Validation failed: Username can't be blank",
    "status": "400"
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser title="409 Conflict">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "scimType": "uniqueness",
    "detail": "Resource already exists",
    "status": "409"
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Create groups in your Authentication Domain [#create-groups]

If you are using a third-party identity provider, refer to their documentation for how to push groups with SCIM.

Otherwise, send a `POST` request to `/scim/v2/Groups` to create a group. The only group attribute **required** is:
* `displayName` The group name.

> Take note of the returned group `id`. To update a group or its members in the future you will need to supply the same ID with the request.

Reviewer: Again, probably needs to be a `<Callout>` or maybe separate this from the examples below with a header.

{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"],
    "displayName": "Example Group"
}
EOF
```

Example responses:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser title="201 Created">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
    ],
    "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
    "displayName": "Example Group",
    "meta": {
      "resourceType": "Group",
      "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
      "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
    },
    "members": []
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser title="400 Bad Request">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "scimType": "invalidValue",
    "detail": "Validation failed: Display name can't be blank",
    "status": "400"
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser title="409 Conflict">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "scimType": "uniqueness",
    "detail": "Resource already exists",
    "status": "409"
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## View users and groups in your Authentication Domain [#view]

> After you've created some users and groups you will see them in the [User management UI](#TODO). You can also retrieve them from the SCIM API.

Reviewer: Stray TODO

```

Example response:

<Collapser title="200 OK">
```
{
  "totalResults": 1,
  "schemas": [
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse"
  ],
  "Resources": [
    {
      "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
      ],
      "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
      "displayName": "Example Group",
      "meta": {
        "resourceType": "Group",
        "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
        "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
      },
      "members": []
    }
  ]
}
```
</Collapser>

## Update a user's attributes [#update-user]

The SCIM API supports both `PUT` and `PATCH` methods for updating users. Refer to the [SCIM API supported actions](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/scim-support-automated-user-management/#supported-actions) and [RFC 7644](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644) for details on using `PATCH`. This tutorial will demonstrate updating a user's attributes with the `PUT` method.

> New Relic does **not** require all user attributes be included in the request body, only the attributes you want to update are necessarry. Send a `PUT` request to `/scim/v2/Users/${ID}` to update the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Relic does **not** require all user attributes be included in the request body, only the attributes you want to update are necessary. Send a `PUT` request to `/scim/v2/Users/${ID}` to update the user.
```

}
EOF
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="200 OK">
```
{
  "schemas": [
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
  ],
  "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
  "displayName": "Example Group",
  "meta": {
    "resourceType": "Group",
    "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
    "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
  },
  "members": []
}
```
</Collapser>

## Delete users and groups [#delete]

To remove a user from your Authentication Domain, send a `DELETE` request to `/scim/v2/Users/${ID}`.

```
curl -X 'DELETE' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Users/d0f4d8e3-5413-4894-a8f9-de709994e18c'
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="204 No Content">
</Collapser>

Similarly, to remove a group from your Authentication Domain, send a `DELETE` request to `/scim/v2/Groups/${ID}`.

```
curl -X 'DELETE' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Groups/df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b'
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="204 No Content">
</Collapser>

## Optional: Manage user type with SCIM

> By default, a user's type can only be viewed and modified in the [User management UI](#TODO). If you'd like to use SCIM instead, update your Authentication Domain configuration to [Delegate control of user type](#TODO) to your identity provider or custom application.

Reviewer: Stray TODO

> ---

Reviewer 3: This new doc needs to be added to the accounts.yml nav file for it appear in the nav.

Reviewer 2: thank you!

---

This tutorial will walk you through some common procedures for managing users on the New Relic One user model using the SCIM API. The SCIM API allows you to view, create, update, and delete users and groups programmatically, outside of the [User management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where).

## Requirements [#requirements]

Before starting this tutorial, please read the [requirements for automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign) and for [the SCIM API](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/scim-support-automated-user-management). 

Note that the API does **not** give you the ability to manage access grants (assigning your New Relic users access to accounts and roles). This means that after you're done creating an integration with this API, you must next use the **Organization and access** UI to create access grants. For more information, see [user management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts).

## Overview [#overview]

> Before using this tutorial, we first recommend reading these docs:

Reviewer 3: How about "we recommend you read"?

Reviewer 3: I'd move this "to read" list up to the requirements section. Keep the overview a strict overview.

* [Where to find user management features in the UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where)
* [Important user management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts)
* [Our primary SCIM API reference](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/scim-support-automated-user-management/)
* Some SCIM 2.0 RFC documents from the Internet Engineering Task Force that are most relevant: [RFC 7643 - SCIM Core Resources and Extensions](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7643#section-4), [RFC 7643 - JSON Representation](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7643#section-8), and [RFC 7644 - SCIM Protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644).

> This tutorial walks you through how to:

Reviewer 3: I find this bulleted list pretty hard to parse, actually. I'm questioning how useful it is. Also, this bulleted list is replicated in the right sidebar so it's a little redundant too.

Maybe instead of an overview list, it would be more helpful to describe what someone will be able to do after completing this tutorial? Like, what's the value in doing this?

Reviewer 3: Also, some of these high-level procedures seem required (Configure your authentication domain) while some feel potentially optional (Delete users and groups). Maybe it's helpful to break these up and into stuff that you need to know how to do and stuff that's nice to know how to do?

In other words, adding some additional organization to this doc might really help people make sense of it.

* [Configure your authentication domain for SCIM](#configure-scim)
* [Create users and user groups in your system](#create-in-idp)
* [Connect to the SCIM API](#connect)
* [Create users in your authentication domain](#create-users)
* [Create groups in your authentication domain](#create-groups)
* [View users and groups in your authentication domain](#view)
* [Update a user's attributes](#update-user)
* [Update a group's members](#update-group)
* [Delete users and groups](#delete)
* [Manage user type](#manage-user-type)

## Configure your authentication domain for SCIM [#configure-scim]

> Before you can use the SCIM API, you must first [enable SCIM for your authentication domain](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#source-users). Note that the API access token is displayed only once after you save the configuration, so save it somewhere safe for later user. 

Reviewer 3: I think this tutorial should include the minimum amount of information needed to do a thing, instead of linking out to a more complete doc. This doesn't feel like the minimum amount of info here.

For all requests to the SCIM API, you must provide the bearer token in an `Authorization` header. Here's an example with `curl`:

```
curl -X 'GET' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Users'
```

Any request in the rest of this tutorial will receive a **401 Unauthorized** response if the API access token is missing or invalid.

Example response:

<Collapser title="401 Unauthorized">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "detail": "invalid authentication token",
    "status": "401"
  }
  ```
</Collapser>

## Create users in your authentication domain [#create-users]

You can use the SCIM API to send a `POST` request to `/scim/v2/Users` to create a user. The following user attributes are **required**:
* `userName` This identifier **must** be unique within an authentication domain. Use the user's email address. 

> * `emails` The single email address of the user (despite it being called `emails`, only one is accepted).

Reviewer 3: Should someone use the same email they used in userName? Might be good to make this clear.

* `active` Boolean indicating whether or not the user should be active or inactive within New Relic.

> It's recomended to provide the following attributes for the best user experience:

Reviewer 3: I prefer "we recommend". "It's recommended" is too passive voice for my liking.

  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
    ],
    "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
    "displayName": "Example Group",
    "meta": {
      "resourceType": "Group",
      "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
      "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
    },
    "members": []
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser title="400 Bad Request">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "scimType": "invalidValue",
    "detail": "Validation failed: Display name can't be blank",
    "status": "400"
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser title="409 Conflict">
  ```
  {
    "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:Error"
    ],
    "scimType": "uniqueness",
    "detail": "Resource already exists",
    "status": "409"
  }
  ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## View users and groups in your authentication domain [#view]

After you've created some users and groups you'll see them in the [User management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). You can also retrieve them from the SCIM API.

> In this tutorial we'll search for specific users and groups, but that's not the only way to view users and groups. Refer to the [SCIM  API reference](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/scim-support-automated-user-management/) and [RFC 7644](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644) for all the available query options.

Reviewer 3: This isn't accurate. It's not "we" who are doing the tutorial. It's the reader "you" who is doing the tutorial.

      "active": true,
      "meta": {
        "resourceType": "User",
        "created": "2021-07-20T21:32:58.167Z",
        "lastModified": "2021-07-20T21:32:58.167Z"
      },
      "groups": []
    }
  ]
}
```
</Collapser>

Similarly, send a `GET` request to `/scim/v2/Groups` with a `filter` query parameter to retrieve a group by name.

```
curl -X 'GET' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $<var>YOUR_TOKEN</var>" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Groups' --get --data-urlencode 'filter=displayName eq "Example Group"'
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="200 OK">
```
{
  "totalResults": 1,
  "schemas": [
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse"
  ],
  "Resources": [
    {
      "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
      ],
      "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
      "displayName": "Example Group",
      "meta": {
        "resourceType": "Group",
        "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
        "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
      },
      "members": []
    }
  ]
}
```
</Collapser>

## Update a user's attributes [#update-user]

> The SCIM API supports both `PUT` and `PATCH` methods for updating users. Refer to the [SCIM API supported actions](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/scim-support-automated-user-management/#supported-actions) and [RFC 7644](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644) for details on using `PATCH`. This tutorial will demonstrate updating a user's attributes with the `PUT` method.

Reviewer 3: "This tutorial will demonstrate" --> "This tutorial demonstrates"

* `op` set to `Add`
* `path` set to `members`
* `value` set to a list of `{"value": "${USER_ID}"}` with each user ID to add to the group

Send a `PATCH` request to `/scim/v2/Groups/${ID}` to update group members.

```
curl -X 'PATCH' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $<var>YOUR_TOKEN</var>" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Groups/df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b' --data-binary @- <<EOF
{
  "schemas": [
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"
  ],
  "Operations": [{
    "op": "Add",
    "path": "members",
    "value": [{
      "value": "5a1d580f-323c-450c-8c62-479b5c9085d6"
    }]
  }]
}
EOF
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="200 OK">
```
{
  "schemas": [
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
  ],
  "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
  "displayName": "Example Group",
  "meta": {
    "resourceType": "Group",
    "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
    "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
  },
  "members": [
    {
      "type": "User",
      "value": "5a1d580f-323c-450c-8c62-479b5c9085d6"
    }
  ]
}
```
</Collapser>

> And to remove a user from a group, use the following operation parameters:

Reviewer 3: I prefer not using "and" like this

<Collapser title="200 OK">
```
{
  "schemas": [
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
  ],
  "id": "df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b",
  "displayName": "Example Group",
  "meta": {
    "resourceType": "Group",
    "created": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z",
    "lastModified": "2021-07-20T22:41:50.414Z"
  },
  "members": []
}
```
</Collapser>

## Delete users and groups [#delete]

To remove a user from an authentication domain, send a `DELETE` request to `/scim/v2/Users/${ID}`.

```
curl -X 'DELETE' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $<var>YOUR_TOKEN</var>" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Users/d0f4d8e3-5413-4894-a8f9-de709994e18c'
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="204 No Content">
</Collapser>

Similarly, to remove a group from your authentication domain, send a `DELETE` request to `/scim/v2/Groups/${ID}`.

```
curl -X 'DELETE' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $<var>YOUR_TOKEN</var>" 'https://scim-provisioning.service.newrelic.com/scim/v2/Groups/df2b9a04-0426-4a3e-bf5f-54d5341f4e5b'
```

Example response:

<Collapser title="204 No Content">
</Collapser>

## Next steps [#next-steps]

> Once your integration is complete, next steps include: 

Reviewer 3: I prefer something more active than "next steps include". How about

"Once you've completed your integration, review these next steps"

* If you're on [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), you'll likely want to downgrade some of your billable [full users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure#user-type) to free [basic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure#user-type). To do this, you can use the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles#add-users) or [use the SCIM API](#manage-user-type). 
* [Set up SAML SSO](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#saml).
* Once your users are provisioned in New Relic, you'll need to assign access grants to give them access to accounts. [Learn more about access grants.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts) 

> ## Optional: Manage user type [#manage-user-type]

Reviewer 3: If this is optional, I'd recommend pulling it out of this doc and stashing it somewhere else. Maybe it's own doc?
